Connect the terms with their definitions.
XSS or cross-site scripting, CSRF or,
yeah, UI Redressing, man in the middle,
and allows attackers to inject malicious
scripts into web pages viewed by others,
tricks users in interacting with
disguised or hidden elements.
Tricks users into executing unwanted
actions by exploiting their
authenticated session, or
allows attackers to intercept and
modify communication between two
parties without their knowledge.
All right, so
the answer is cross-site scripting
allows attackers to inject malicious
script into web pages viewed by others.
Cross-site request forgery tricks users
into executed unwanted actions by
exploiting their authenticated session.
UI Redressing, is also called
clickjacking, tricks users in interacting
with disguised or hidden elements, and
man in the middle allows attackers to
intercept and modify communication between
two parties without their knowledge.
So first for cross-site scripting
just to give a small example, for
example you have a blog post editor and
you wanna show people when
they're writing you wanna show
a live preview I don't know.
But you're using the unsafe innerHTML for
that now in this case it's fine but
maybe if a user adds like this image,
which isn't working,
we're not pointing to any src.
But we also have an on error function,
which fetches or
makes a post request to this evil API.
But because we're actually
embedding this image into the HTML,
it has access to the documents cookies.
So now it can just make that request
to this evil API with the cookie
that was currently stored on a document.
Now there are pretty, you just have
to sanitize your input always.
You have to avoid using unsafe methods
like innerHTML, document.write, eval,
all the good things.
Normally, when you're using a framework,
they help you with that,
if you're using React, they actually say
dangerouslySetInnerHTML, all that stuff.
Yeah, anyway,
that's cross-site scripting, kind of.
And then there,
we have the cross-site request forgery.
So in this case, let's say that you're
just logging into your bank, as always,
but your bank doesn't really, I don't
know, think about security too much.
So it's setting a cookie on this,
well not just on this website
it just sets a cookie.
So now, I don't know if your friend's
suddenly, hey, check out this site but
it still has access to that cookie.
And this site may be or, it has an onload
function that basically submits
a form as soon as the body is loaded.
But this form makes a post
request to your bank's API but
because your cookie is still set and
they didn't really set it securely that
website also has access to that cookie.
So now it can just make a request to
your website, pretending to be you.
So one way to avoid that is by using a
CSRF token, which can be kind of anything.
But it should just be just
that user has that token, and
the server knows that token.
So it knows when a request comes in from
that user, the server can decode that CSRF
token to ensure that's actually
the user making that request.
So in this case,
maybe we're setting a same site cookie,
which is a cookie that will only
be accessible on that same site so
only bank.com has access to that cookie.
So in this case, we can just make
a request but now when we actually go to
that evil site, it won't have that CSRF
token, it will just have the user token.
So now when we do make
a request to the website, it's,
sorry my animations are all
over the place, yeah,
it's just returns a forbidden
because the CSRF token is invalid.
So this is kind of a way to I don't know,
avoid or prevents CSRF or the forgery.
Yeah okay, so it does work when you do
have that token I don't know why I added
an animation for that.
But anyway, and then we have
UI Redressing or clickjacking.
So let's say, or like this happens by
embedding an iframe so for example this
bank iframe, that's kind of that blurred
out one and then we have this evil site.
But what they do is they kind of overlap
the website with an iframe that you
won't be able to see.
So they just make it opacity zero, this
make it out, so now when you think you're
winning a cool prize, you're actually
clicking on the transfer money button,
because that is an iframe on top of that.
So now it makes a request to your bank and
if you, initially when that's an iframe
for bank.com, it has that cookie in
that iframe because it's still bank.com
it's still that origin so
it's making that request.
We'll talk more about how browsers kind of
prevent this later on, but yeah that is
UI Redressing or clickjacking which can
still happen when embedding iframes.
And also, as a website owner,
you can prevent other websites from
embedding your iframe by setting
the X-Frame-Options header.
So that just ensures that evil
websites cannot embed your website
into their website,
potentially causing clickjacking attacks.
And then there's man in the middle I
mean this is kind of a different type
of attack.
It's just client and server and a man in
the middle, I don't know why this is so
aggressive, but it can kind of sit
maybe in a Wi-Fi router or something.
And he just kind of sits in between the
communication between you and the server.
So it can just read it, it can alter it,
it can do anything with it.
Now, if you use HTTPS everything
will be encrypted, right?
So they just cannot really see,
because HTTP normal is just plain text.
So they can read everything they
can read your headers, your data.
But if you're using HTTPS and he doesn't
have access to that secure to your
tokens or certificates,
then it'll just be unreadable for them.
So that's also a great way to avoid
that and why you should use HTTPS.
I mean, there are still also
vulnerabilities with man in the middle
attacks, even with HTTPS, but it's
definitely a lot harder for them to do so.